Overview
--------

pythondialog is a Python wrapper for the Unix "dialog" utility by Savio
Lam and Stuart Herbert. Its purpose is to provide an easy to use,
pythonic and as complete as possible interface to dialog from Python
code.

pythondialog is free software, licensed under the GNU LGPL.

If you want to get a quick idea of what this module allows you to do,
you should run demo.py:

  python demo.py


What is pythondialog good for? What are its limitations?
--------------------------------------------------------

As you might infer from the name, dialog is a high-level program that
generates dialog boxes. So is pythondialog. They allow you to build nice
interfaces quickly and easily, but you don't have full control over the
widgets, nor can you create new widgets without modifying dialog itself.
If you need to do low-level stuff, you should have a look at ncurses or
slang instead.


Documentation
-------------

pythondialog is fully documented through Python docstrings. Handy ways
to access to this documentation are to use the pydoc standalone program
or Python module.

You can type "pydoc dialog" at the command prompt in pythondialog base
directory. Alternatively, you can type:
  - "import pydoc, dialog; pydoc.help(dialog)" at a Python 2.1 command
    prompt (and probably any earlier version with pydoc installed)
  - "import dialog; help(dialog)" at at a Python 2.2 command prompt (and
    probably any later version)

To browse it in HTML format, you can launch an HTTP server listening on
port 1234 with "pydoc -p 1234 &" (yes, it is damn easy!) and simply
browse on http://localhost:1234/ afterwards.

Alternatively, you can dump the current dialog.py documentation (as
found by Python if you did "import dialog") as an html file with
"pydoc -w dialog". This will generate dialog.html in the current
directory.

See the pydoc module's documentation for more information.


Troubleshooting
---------------

* pythondialog seems not to work very well with whiptail. Well, whiptail
  is not very compatible with dialog any more. Currently, although you
  can tell pythondialog the program you want it to invoke, only
  dialog-compatible programs are supported. Note that the above
  "Currently" does not mean I plan to work on the subject.

* It is said that there is a bug in (at least) the Mandrake 7.0 Russian
  Edition running on AMD K6-2 3D that causes core dump when `dialog' is run
  with the --gauge option; in this case you'll have to recompile the `dialog'
  program.


History
-------

pythondialog was originally written by Robb Shecter. Sultanbek Tezadov
added some features to it (mainly the first gauge implementation, I
guess). Then I (Florent Rougon) rewrote most parts of the program to
make it more robust and flexible so that it can give access to all
features of the dialog program.
